JAKE: Hey, I'll tell
you what, Jake-- here's
what we're going to talk about.
And you'd be like slapping my
leg, and my arm, and my face.
You didn't slap my face.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I had to bring some of my old
slides back from the dead--
as I talked about,
like that 2016 talk.
Gave that recently, because
it was explicitly requested.
And some of my
slides were broken.
SURMA: Oh no.
JAKE: I had a sort of a
thing in SVG that spun round.
SURMA: Like a spinner.
JAKE: Like a spinner.
It was a cog, spinning round,
but it was spinning around--
and now, it was
just sort of going
for a wander around the page.
SURMA: Ooh.
So like the origin of
the rotation had changed.
JAKE: The origin of the
rotation had changed.
SURMA: Why?
Did we break the web?
JAKE: Yes.
Well, in my case,
yes-- yes, we did.
It turns out I
didn't matter enough,
I didn't register enough on
the statistics to worry about.
But I was relying on,
technically, a bug in Chrome.
SURMA: So you are to blame.
JAKE: Kind of.
I don't know.
I don't know if I knew I was
relying on a bug in Chrome
at the time.
It's still my
ignorance, I suppose.
Fine.
Fine, it's mine.
SURMA: Fine!
JAKE: OK.
And so if you've
got an HTML element,
and you spin it around with
a transform origin like it's
the default.
SURMA: 50-50.
JAKE: 50-50.
It kind of spins around the--
SURMA: We should be completely
at the 50%, so in the middle.
By default, the
transform origin's
in the middle of the border box?
JAKE: I think it's the
painted area, maybe.
SURMA: Is that a
thing that exists?
As like--
JAKE: Yeah, no.
Yes-- no.
SURMA: I would say border box.
JAKE: Border box.
OK.
SURMA: But I'm not sure.
Tweet at us if you
know the answer.
JAKE: I'll have to
go and look that up.
And whereas in SVG, the default
transform origin, I think,
is 0, 0.
But this is where it
starts getting weird--
the transform origin
sort of differs from--
it's 0, 0, but not
to the element.
It's to the SVG element.
SURMA: Ooh.
Oh, I think-- yes, now that you
say that, that might be true.
JAKE: But if you did
transform origin 50%, 50%,
Chrome would put it in the
middle of the painted element.
SURMA: The individual SVG--
individual--
JAKE: Yes.
SURMA: --thing, not the
SVG view box thing.
JAKE: So if you wanted the
cog to spin around the center,
transform origin, 50%, 50%.
Rotation--
JAKE: Would do the
thing you'd expect.
OK.
JAKE: And everything works.
SURMA: What if I do
transform origin 0, 0?
JAKE: Oh, that would be
the top left of the SVG.
Yeah, it was a bit weird--
like % behave differently to--
SURMA: 0%?
JAKE: I don't know.
SURMA: OK, it's apparently
not working anyway, anymore.
JAKE: So it could be that my
memory's off there, because I
say, that is in the past.
Chrome fixed itself--
thanks, Chrome--
to behave like
Firefox was behaving,
which was according to the spec,
like the transform origin is
always the top left
of the SVG element.
The [INAUDIBLE].
SURMA: So that reinforced the
whole notion that SVG elements
have this coordinate system--
JAKE: Yes.
SURMA: --that you work on.
And every element works relative
to that coordinate system.
JAKE: Yes.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE: Exactly that.
And the fix is this
relatively new CSS property
called transform box.
SURMA: Mm-hm.
JAKE: And that takes--
SURMA: That was a squeak.
(IN A HIGH VOICE) Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
JAKE: (IN A HIGH VOICE) Mm-hm.
Mm.
SURMA: (IN A HIGH
VOICE) Interesting.
JAKE: (IN A HIGH
VOICE) Transform box.
Here we go.
I'm going to do the rest of
the episode in a Mickey Mouse
voice.
(REGULAR VOICE) No, I'm not.
And the values it has is border
box, fill box, and view box.
So the idea is--
SURMA: OK.
JAKE: -- like view box--
SURMA: Is this a
property on a SVG?
JAKE: Actually, it's CSS,
so it's on all elements.
SURMA: OK.
OK.
JAKE: Including HTML.
SURMA: What do you call the
things inside an SVG element?
The SVG elements?
JAKE: Well, we call a
paragraph an HTML element.
[INAUDIBLE]
SURMA: No, but how
do we distinguish
between the boundary towards
the SVG thing and the things
that you can use inside SVG?
JAKE: I see.
Let's go for SVG
root or HTML root.
SURMA: Mm-hm.
So We have SVG elements
that are inside an SVG root.
JAKE: Yeah, let's do that.
OK.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE: OK, OK.
Yeah.
So the default for
SVG is view box.
SURMA: Yes.
JAKE: Which is essentially
the [INAUDIBLE] view, SVG view.
Whereas, the default
for HTML is--
well, I thought it was fill box,
but now you've got me thinking.
SURMA: One of the two--
border box or fill box.
JAKE: Border box.
Border box.
Box.
SURMA: I didn't know that
fill box is a thing,
so you might very well be right.
I didn't know that we ever had
the notion of the region that
is painted as something
that you can work on.
JAKE: Yeah, but I am
thinking it's border box now,
because I think it might
be the same as what's
created by a [INAUDIBLE].
SURMA: Do we have fill
box somewhere else?
JAKE: I think.
We do have it for, I think--
SURMA: Not for box [INAUDIBLE].
JAKE: We have pointer
events, I think.
SURMA: Huh.
JAKE: Pointer events in SVG.
SURMA: So basically, fill box
could differ from the border
box with masks?
JAKE: Things escaping
outside, or things--
so I think you're
right, actually.
I think HTML4 uses border box.
Pointer events in SVG,
if you have a hover,
you can have the hover
be to the painted area.
So if there's a
hole in the middle--
SURMA: So that
[INAUDIBLE] makes sense,
because you want to make it
to the visual representation
of the element, right?
JAKE: Well, sometimes you
do, sometimes you don't.
So this was a huge problem
in Flash, in the olden days.
SURMA: Here we go again.
JAKE: Yeah, tales from my
days as a Flash developer.
A lot of people would
make this mistake where
they would have a
button, and the thing
they defined as a button
would be the button text.
And that meant the hover
area was the click--
SURMA: [INAUDIBLE]
JAKE: Yeah.
And if it was a
very thin font, it
was really difficult
to get on and--
SURMA: Get on the--
I remember those buggy
Flash, where you had, like--
[GROWLS]
JAKE: So with
pointer events in SVG,
you can define it as being the
border box, like essentially,
the layout box, or
the painted area.
SURMA: So just a quick question.
Would outline be
part of the fill box?
JAKE: Ooh.
Probably not, because it's
outside the border box.
Or it would be in the
fill box, but it's--
SURMA: Yeah.
So ultimately, it would
be part of the fill box.
JAKE: Yeah.
SURMA: Interesting.
JAKE: I think-- yeah, maybe.
I think.
I'm just going to give up.
But yeah, so is this--
SURMA: So you have control
over how this works.
JAKE: Yes.
So if you want to--
SURMA: But Chrome changed its
default, which was [INAUDIBLE]..
JAKE: Exactly.
Yes.
But now that's supported.
Transform boxes are supported
in Safari, in Firefox,
and in Chrome-- ah, not
Edge, unfortunately.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE: So if you
want to spin around
the center of something-- so
I used to always-- my hack was
to use transforms to get
the thing back into 0, 0,
do the rotation, and then
do the reverse, really,
which is a pain.
Someone on Twitter came up
with a much better way--
Fabian [? Gunden. ?] Because
you can have SVG in SVG,
and it's its own view box then.
SURMA: Yeah.
You can basically just do a
relative coordinate system.
JAKE: It's either a
relative coordinate system,
rotate the thing
inside, and then
the extra transforms
of the thing outside.
Problem solved.
It's all fixed.
I like that.
SURMA: Yeah.
I mean, that's probably not
even that bad of a solution.
It looks a bit icky in
the markup, I guess,
but it really
solves the problem.
JAKE: Yeah.
It really solves the problem.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: But some of them
just don't get the hint,
so I'm not a small talker.
I hate it.
JAKE: Right.
SURMA: Both in Uber,
or on a massage table,
I just go like-- hm.
Yeah.
Get the hint-- I don't
want to talk to you.
JAKE: Oh, yeah.
Just drive, slave.
SURMA: Most of them do.
Most of them are like--
JAKE: Come on.
SURMA: Or barbershop,
also very talkative.
I'm like, hm.